# USD to URDF Exporter Extension

## Overview

The USD to URDF Exporter is a tool to convert a USD stage or file to a URDF file. A user just needs to open a stage with the desired USD they want to export, and provide the path to directory where the new URDF file will be saved, or the path to the new URDF file directly.

**The JetBot USD shown in Isaac Sim, and the converted URDF shown in RViz**

To enable this extension, open the Extension Manager window by navigating to **Window > Extensions**, and enable `isaacsim.asset.exporter.urdf`.

Once enabled, the USD to URDF Exporter is accessed by going to the top Menu Bar and clicking **File > Export to URDF**. Mesh files are saved by default to a `meshes` directory, which is placed in the same directory as the new URDF file. Additional options are available that allow customization of some parts of the conversion.

**The USD to URDF Exporter window**

---

## Parameters

### Output File/Directory

The file path for the new URDF file. The file path conventionally ends with the extension `.urdf`.

Or a directory path where new URDF file will be saved. The new URDF file will have the same name as the USD.

### Mesh Directory Path

The directory where the meshes will be saved for the URDF (defaults to the same directory as where the URDF file is saved).

### Mesh Path Prefix

A prefix to apply to each mesh filename. For example, to set the mesh file paths to valid URI with the `file` scheme, set the mesh path prefix to `file://`.

### Root Prim Path

The root prim within the USD stage of the kinematic tree to be exported to URDF. The default is the default prim of the USD file.

### Visualize Collisions

If set, the collision meshes are included as visual meshes in the resulting URDF.

---

## Notes

- URDF files do not support kinematic loops. If the USD file has a kinematic loop, the converter will fail. Try to manually break the loop first.
- URDF files require a parent link and a child link when defining a joint, they do not allow having a joint with a single link. If there are such joints in the USD file, for example, an unattached end-effector, the converter will likely produce inconsistent joint transforms and fail.
